# Big Data

**September 26, 2015, 11am PT**

[Google Hangouts](https://plus.google.com/hangouts/_/lessigforpresident.com/wake-up)

Host: @furf

## Agenda

1. @furf Introductions
1. @furf Appoint a secretary to take minutes.
1. @aaronlifshin Welcome to Team Lessig Tech
1. @furf Team Lessig Tech: :100: Open
  * [GitHub](https://github.com/Lessig2016/Lessig2016.github.io)
  * Google Groups
  * [Slack](https://teamlessigtech.slack.com/)
  * Google Hangouts
1. @furf Getting started
  * Existing projects
    * [Contributing](https://github.com/Lessig2016/Lessig2016.github.io/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)
  * Upcoming projects (Lessigram, Canvas, Big Data)
  * Your projects?
  * [Demo](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7FManMOaCy8)
1. Q & A

##Attendees
* @furf
* @bucchere
* @aaronlifshin
* @beverly
* @tim
* @aschober
* @gg
* @mdavid
* @gamedevsam
* bryan?
* craig?
* dan?
* david?
* davidrobinson?
* sarah?
* ricardo?

## Minutes
@furf: Introduction. ~20 yrs experience. Used to work at large agency and left to focus on more meaningful work.

@aschober: volunteers to take notes

@furf intros @aaronlifshin, COO

@aaronlifshin: I've been focused on getting the new campaign team what they need for day-to-day. Campaign in transition following fundraising. Excited for volunteers to provide more capacity and new ideas and pull together new-tech, secret weapons. Use the power of the internet to get the message out and inform people not as interested in politics. We're fighting for people's voices and fighting for us (internet freedom). How is the internet going to be fulfilled. Will it enable free communication, will it raise up democracy or will it be taken over by  corporations and special interests. Existential battle with the future of the internet and we're on the front lines as it hasn't fully played out in politics (Pirate Party, Egypt, etc). Still new ways of organizing and the Lessig campaign is going to work it out.

We can find a way to coordinating disparate experiences and locations to create new things at reasonable pace and integrate our work. So welcome everyone and thank you for everything you do and being willing to contribute to the campaign. I'll see you in Slack and elsewhere.

@furf: Demoing http://lessig2016.github.io. Landing page links to Github. Overview of Github. Can come to Github and openly debate everything. meeting notes, etc. If someone has a better idea, we have guidelines on Contributing. Choose to offer criticism on Slack, Google Groups, Hangouts, etc. Where we keep Rules of Engagement. Agenda is organize here too so if you want to add something to an agenda, just submit a pull request. Also have a public Google group. Not as much info on projects as in Slack so faster we can get people into Slack, the better. Please fill out Tech Evaluation if you haven't already which gets me your email address and tech background. 

@ furf: Opens floor for questions -- 

@beverly: how do we know who is working on what so we don't duplicate effort?

@furf: reading the book Swarmwise which talks about organizing groups at scale -- "let everyone do it". If we have things we need doing, we will put them in Issues or Slack. It's ok if there's duplicative effort as long as there's enough volunteers. It's going to be harder to get you work than rest time. If two people end up competing on a feature, there may be time lost, but always something to learn and get to pick better solution or hybrid of both. When things are mission critical, we will be in touch with project leads. As we get bigger, we will have multiple teams and people will fall into teams.

@furf: There are 3 principal ways of getting started right now:
- Get involved existing project 
- Get started on upcoming project 
- Start own project
 
Working on getting materials together needed to work on own projects (images, legal notices, etc)

@Samuel: what is the stack for frontend and backend?

@furf intros @bucchere: We do have internal task managers, more likely we'll use GitHub issues or put them in slack. Each slack channel lists who is the project lead. Chris can take over to talk about existing projects, what the stacks are, and how you can start contributing. 

@bucchere intro. ~20yrs at conferencing company, CIA project on Open Source Center.

@bucchere A bunch of different touchpoints:

- Website on wordpress using theme called Jupiter
- Behind website several python based apps on Google App Engine:
  - Donation
  - auth service (google & facebook) 
  - teams to setup pledge page for self or team 
  - mailchimp tool to sign up people for mailing lists
  - calloborate written by @gg which is a call center tool which serves lists of people and calls the volunteer and then calls callees. Keeps privacy. 
  - fix-democracy-first built on ruby-on-rails forked from questnr to upload supporter videos (http://fixdemocracyfirst.us)
  - 2 or 3 dozen little tools for other things 
  
@aaron for anything missing? @aaron: Crescendo -- should have tool to amplify social message by getting notification on phone. Thunderclap creator is friend just need bandwidth to integrate Crescendo into Lessig app. @gamedevsame: asks for more details -- @aaronlefshin: Crescendo is an app and you subscribe to the Lessig-channel and it pushes you social action cards (tweet this or facebook this) and you then push it out. Ideally part of a Lessig app.

@furf: Key tools right now: Python developers, ruby-on-rails developers, mobile developers and people that understand broader concepts ie bigdata 

@gamedevsam mentions personal interest in Meteor 

@furf: Team has ideas for app but still coming together -- profile image overlays like marriage equality, canvassing to record in realtime whether success or failure. Check out Lessig GitHub. Started building Lessiggram (which needs to be renamed since FB no-like '-grams'). Repo exists for canvassing app but now thinking about integrating into a single app. If there's a repo, check-in with slack to get more info, and then feel free to update the description, update the code and submit pull-request. Otherwise come into Slack to get ideas. Slack channels also have Github integrations for issues and commits. Calling on all of us to self-start, motivate, and push @furf how to better get to work, get more resources, etc. Otherwise free to go and work on whatever and bring it back to the table. We have ~90 on google groups, about ~45 on tech assessment, and only handful working with regularly. @Samuel requesting access to new repo. @furf says Lessig can fork a repo from you. If you want other people to work on your repo, reach out on Slack or Google Groups.

@furf: Peter Spano from Brooklyn put together iOS app similar to Lessiggram to apply overlay on image and send to facebook. Youtube video demoing app.

@aaronlifshin: wondering if we should do separate apps. @furf : easier to push out new features to existing app than installing new app

@furf: would like to find  people to headup native mobile operation for iOS/Android with architecture to push mini-apps/features to a single app. One team could develop using React Native and get it out or another team builds using native then great. Typically first to market wins. We will continue to discuss every week 

@furf: Create a "dare for the week". Right now, highest priority is getting Lessig in the debates. Go and out and what will connect with media, connect with people.

@aaronlifshin: we need to poll at 1%. Get the name out whatever stunt can do that 

Craig: worried about being competitive rather than collaborative. @furf agrees and wants to be collaborative. Come to Slack when you're free and discuss.

Craig: interested in working off of GitHub issues or tasks that can be assigned and submitted. @furf: we're working on creating a better flow and ask for 
 patience/persistence while getting Issues in Github regularly.
 
@beverly wondering if we can do something of getting Lessig name on poll options. @aaronlifshin: both sides of getting word out -- to get name on poll ballot and then get 1% to pick Lessig

Dan: Any celebrities that can be contacted? @aaronlifshin: Lessig has been reaching out.

@furf: how would spread the word for a party?

@bucchere: signing off. Please over-communicate everything in Slack (avoid email) or GitHub. Can avoid issues of competition and duplicate effort with solid communication.

@mdavid reached out to founder of Xamarin for mobile devs.He then requested specs and designs. Do we have those?

@aaronlifshin: signing off. get involved, keep connecting, there is a challenge of getting this up and running, and hope volunteers take this on 

@furf: get in sm-mobile Slack channel. I have handful of features that could be turned into spec. I'm trying to get PMs and Designers on Twitter. Kilzey? on Slack, friend from MLB who has started wireframing Lessiggram. There are people that can help translate objectives to features which can be taken to someone else to turn into product. 

@bonk: intro -- on the design team. If anyone does feel they want to take something on and need design assistance, would have time to provide guidance on UX. In the slack channel as @bonk

David: curious if there's a way to find out what other people do? @furf: Created 'Subject Matter' Slack channels to find. We need Slack more vibrant and connecting people.

@furf: using Google App Script to create a simple website that allows you to type in technology and find experts. Could also setup 'People' page in Github. We do need to increase visiblity among people. First thing is to get into Slack channel. 

@mdavid: wanted to confirm time for Big Data at Sunday 7pm PT? @furf: recommend to poll the Slack channel. Join the sm-bigdata channel if you're interested in helping out with Big Data 

@furf: any other ideas or teams that want to organize

@beverly: idea to do in-person hackday in SF. The main Lessig group wanted people to write letters to media. Maybe we could write tool that would send it out to multiple media/papers. @bonk: had same thought on hackday, pick a day/location and get going. @mdavid: is planning one on Oct 10 in Seattle at UofW.

@furf: we need a crud tool with list of papers, tv stations, etc and another tool for templates which are a couple things that could be tackled right now @bonk: I think there's already existing tech for this 

@beverly: wondering about workplace donating office space to avoid issues around gift-in-kind. @bonk there are rules about that. Spaces that are open to public and general use, we can use it as long as its not typically paid for. @furf: there's always living room, library, coffee shop or virtual hackathon. @bonk, we do have a coworking space in SF as another option 

@ricardo: been doing volunteer calling and following Slack as a not-overly-tech person. Difficult to find where stuff is being communicated for anyone (not just tech people). @bonk: campaign team has talked about using Slack. One difficult problem about Slack is the volume. Google groups can handle scale and anyone can add themselves. Team has talked about it and wondering how we can use Slack. @furf can always hook you up with the right people. Feel free to create the channels you need to work. @mdavid created 'Hackathon' channel. 

@gamedevsam: interested in solving a lot of things with least amount of tools for native and web. @furf: wants to pull together call for mobile and web developers similar to what was done with bigdata last week. I need to get objectives nailed-down internally and then share that. We have experts. Going to need services/endpoints and people to build them and what is an optimal way to do this. Have people that have Rails, Python, JS, etc. Think about the architectures that are available not just tech you know. How best to mobilize people with differing skillsets. Sometimes prefer to use platforms we know, but open to other things. We will need a person(s) to design architecture. We will get that call together. Don't have to wait on mobile app either but focus on prototyping at this point. 

@furf calling meeting at 12:30p PT.

